### If you make any additions to the modlist, it is strongly recommended you run Synthesis again to apply the patchers' effects to those added mods as well. 

Without running _Synthesis_, your added NPCs, armors, and weapons will not have any of the resistances or vulnerabilities that the ones in the rest of the list do. If this is not an issue for you, you probably don't need to run _Synthesis._

To run the tool, select "Synthesis" from the _Mod Organizer 2_ drop-down menu and launch it.

You will see three groups listed, "Synthesis0," "Synthesis1," and "Synthesis2". These represent three groupings of patchers that will result in three ESPs of the same name as the group.

Wait for the tool and all of its patchers to "compile" (represented by blue circles) and the arrows at the bottom of each group to turn white. If one of the circles turns red, perhaps the compilation glitched out. Try closing the tool and opening it again to see if it goes away. If it doesn't, you will need to click on the name of the patcher with the red circle (for example: "AmuletsShowOnEverything") and refer to the error messages in the large, right-most pane. Report the errors to my #black-additions channel to see if anyone has any tips on resolving them.

Once you have the go-ahead to run the tool (the white arrows), you need to click the small "Play" button at the bottom of the "Synthesis0" group and wait for the patching to complete. Close _Synthesis_, enable the new "Synthesis0" ESP at the bottom of the load order, then repeat the steps for "Synthesis1." Continue until all ESPS are created and enabled. **It is very important to compile all of the patchers in the proper order, with each successive run drawing data from the ESPs that were previously created.**

One common error that you may receive during the patching process is that a _Synthesis_ ESP has "too many masters." _Synthesis_ is subject to the same limitation as _Skyrim_ itself, in that it cannot process more than 254 ESMs and/or ESPs at a time, and this error means that you have added far more mods than you probably should have, and the tool is trying to draw information from more than 254 of these files. The best way to resolve this is to re-arrange the patchers into smaller groups, with your own chosen names for each group, until each group only patches up to 254 of these files. If you somehow added so many fucking mods that you get a "too many masters" error on a group with **ONE PATCHER** you have added too much fucking shit and you are on your own. Ask my #additions channel for help untangling this nightmare. 

As a last step, you can use _SSEEdit_ to flag all of these ESPs as ESL so they don't take up a "full" ESP slot. To do so, launch "SSEEdit" from the same drop-down menu as the Synthesis patcher, and wait for it to load. When you receive the "Complete" message, find the _Synthesis_ ESPs at the bottom of the left-most list and select all of the as a group (CTRL-CLICK). Right-click on them, and from the menu, select "Apply script..." You will see a dialog box that has a list of scripts you can run on the ESPs, listed in alphabetical order. Select the one called "SetESL" and run it. Close SSEEdit and save the ESPs that you modified. If the ESPs' names did not italicize in MO2, then they cannot be flagged ESL and that is a whole 'nother can of worms that you are going to have to untangle in my #additions channel.