## With the Update to Licentia 8 (and later), Synthesis is no longer required to add most armors, followers, quest mods, and enemy encounters.

### The keywords for the vast majority of additions are added automatically when you run the game via a new method.

### However, if you wish to ensure complete consistency for these additions, you can still run Synthesis to apply certain optional values.

To even use the tool at all, you must have the _.NET v 7.0 SDK_ installed on your system. Find it [here.](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/7.0) (You want the latest version of the SDK.) You must restart your system completely after installation. **Be aware that other versions of .NET may conflict with Synthesis' function.** If you run into strange error messages with the patchers, you may need to remove them. **I am uncertain how this will affect any applications you have installed that rely on these other runtimes.** It is also recommended to get it right the first time, because I believe uninstalling and reinstalling multiple versions of the SDK can cause it to jank up in certain situations. As a note, I currently have _6.0, 7.0 and 8.0_ installed on my system, and have no issues with _Synthesis_ or any of my other apps.

Before you begin the patching process, I recommend deleting old _Synthesis_ ESPs. They can be found by right-clicking on one of them in _MO2_ and selecting "Open Origin in Explorer." Just delete all of them, return to _MO2,_ and strike the F5 key to refresh the Virtual Files System.

Next select "Synthesis" from the _Mod Organizer 2_ drop-down menu and launch it. You will see three groups listed, "Synthesis0," "Synthesis1," and "Synthesis2". These represent three groupings of patchers that will result in three ESPs of the same name as the group.

Wait for the tool and all of its patchers to "compile" (represented by blue circles) and the arrows at the bottom of each group to turn white. If one of the circles turns red, perhaps the compilation glitched out. Try closing the tool and opening it again to see if it goes away. If it doesn't, you will need to click on the name of the patcher with the red circle (for example: "AmuletsShowOnEverything") and refer to the error messages in the large, right-most pane. Report the errors to my #black-additions channel to see if anyone has any tips on resolving them.

Once you have the go-ahead to run the tool (the white arrows), you need to click the small "Play" button at the bottom of the "Synthesis0" group and wait for the patching to complete. Close _Synthesis_, strike the "F5" key to refresh _Mod Organizer's_ Virtual File System, enable the new "Synthesis0" ESP at the bottom of the load order, then repeat the steps for "Synthesis1." Continue until all ESPS are created and enabled. **It is very important to compile all of the patchers in the proper order, with each successive run drawing data from the ESPs that were previously created.**

One common error that you may receive during the patching process is that a _Synthesis_ ESP has "too many masters." _Synthesis_ is subject to the same limitation as _Skyrim_ itself, in that it cannot process more than 254 ESMs and/or ESPs at a time, and this error means that you have added far more mods than you probably should have, and the tool is trying to draw information from more than 254 of these files. The best way to resolve this is to re-arrange the patchers into smaller groups, with your own chosen names for each group, until each group only patches up to 254 of these files. If you somehow added so many fucking mods that you get a "too many masters" error on a group with **ONE PATCHER** you have added too much fucking shit and you are on your own. Ask my #additions channel for help untangling this nightmare. 

As a last step, you can use _SSEEdit_ to flag all of these ESPs as ESL so they don't take up a "full" ESP slot. To do so, launch "SSEEdit" from the same drop-down menu as the Synthesis patcher, and wait for it to load. When you receive the "Complete" message, find the _Synthesis_ ESPs at the bottom of the left-most list and select all of the as a group (CTRL-CLICK). Right-click on them, and from the menu, select "Apply script..." You will see a dialog box that has a list of scripts you can run on the ESPs, listed in alphabetical order. Select the one called "SetESL" and run it. Close SSEEdit and save the ESPs that you modified. If the ESPs' names did not italicize in MO2, then they cannot be flagged ESL and that is a whole 'nother can of worms that you are going to have to untangle in my #additions channel.
